---
layout: post
title: Project Management Professional
subtitle: Project Management
date: {}
categories: Project Management
published: true
---

<div class="text-center">
  <p>Portfolio Review and Adjustments</p>
  <div class="circle text-center mb-3">1</div>
  <div class="element"></div>
  <div class="circle text-center mb-3">2</div>
  <div class="element"></div>
  <div class="circle text-center mb-3">3</div>
  <div class="element"></div>
  <div class="circle text-center mb-3">4</div>
</div>

[Project Management Professional(PMP)](https://www.pmi.org/certifications/types/project-management-pmp) I am learning to improve on my project management skills to design and build Web Apps.

## PROJECT, PROGRAM, PORTFOLIO, AND OPERATIONS MANAGEMENT

| Effective project management                 | Absence of project management may |   
|----------------------------------------------|-------------------------------|
| Meet business objectives                     | Missed deadlines | 
| Satisfy stakeholder expectations             | Cost overruns | 
| Be more predictive                           | Poor quality |  
| Increase chances of success                  | Rework | 
| Deliver the right products at the right time | Uncontrolled expansion of the project | 
| Resolve problems and issues                  | Loss of reputation for the organisation | 
| Respond to risks in a timely manner          | Unsatisfied stakeholders and |
| Balance the influence of constraints on the project (e.g., increased scope may increase cost or schedule) | Failure in achieving the objectives for which the project was undertaken |
| Identify, recover or terminate failing projects | |
| Manage constraints (e.g., scope, quality, schedule, costs, resources) | |
| Optimize the use of organizational resources  | |
| Manage change in a better manner | |


<h2 class="text-center mb-3 mt-3"><b>Organizational Project Management</b></h2>
<div class="table-responsive">
  <table class="table">
    <thead class="thead-dark"> 
      <tr>
        <th scope="col"></th>
        <th scope="col">Projects</th>
        <th scope="col">Programs</th>
        <th scope="col">Portfolios</th>
      </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
      <tr>
        <th scope="row align-top">Definition</th>
        <td>A project is a temporary endeavour undertaken to create a unique product, service or result.</td>
        <td>A program is a group of related projects, subsidiary programs and program activites that are managed in a conordinated manner to obtain benefits not available from managing them individually.</td>
        <td>A portfoilio is a collection of projects, programs and subsidiary portfolios and operations managed as a group to achieve strategic objectives.</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <th scope="row align-top">Scope</th>
        <td>Projects have defined objectives. Scope is progressively elaborated throughout the project life cycle.</td>
        <td>Programs have a scope that encompasses the the scope of it's program components. Programs produce benefits to an organization by ensuring that the outputs and outcomes of program components are delivered in a coordinated and complementary manner.</td>
        <td>Portfolios have an organizational scope that changes with the strategic objectives of the organization.</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <th scope="row align-top">Change</th>
        <td>Project managers expect change and implement processes to keep change nmanaged and controlled.</td>
        <td>Programs are managed in a manner plans that accepts and adapts to change as necessary to optimize the delivery of the benefits as the program's component deliver outcomes and/or outputs.</td>
        <td>Portfolio managers continuously monitor changes in the broader internal and external environments.</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <th scope="row align-top">Planning</th>
        <td>Project managers progressively elaborate high-level information into detailed plans throughout the project life cycle.</td>
        <td>Programs are managed using high-level plans that track the interdependencies and progress of program components. Program plans are also used to guide planning at the component level.</td>
        <td>Portfolio managers create and maintain necessary processes and communication relative to the aggregate portfolio.</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <th scope="row align-top">Managment</th>
        <td>Project managers mange the project team to meet the project objectives.</td>
        <td>Programs are managed by program managers who ensure that program benefits are delivered as expected, by coordinating the activities of a program's components.</td>
        <td>Portfolio managers may manage or coordinated portfolio management staff, or program and project staff that may have reporting responsibilites into the aggregate portfolio.</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <th scope="row align-top">Monitoring</th>
        <td>Project managers monitor and control the work producing the products, services, or results that the project was undertaken ot produce.</td>
        <td>Programs are managers monitor the progress of program components to ensure the overall goals, schedules, budget, and benefits of the program wil be met.</td>
        <td>Portfolio managers monitor strategic changes and aggreste resource allocations results, and risk of the portfolio.</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <th scope="row align-top">Success</th>
        <td>Sucess is measured by product and project quality, timeliness, budget complianc, and degree of customer satisfaction.</td>
        <td>A program's success is measured by the program's ability to deliver it's intended benefits to an organization, and by the program's efficiency and effectiveness in the delivery those benefits.</td>
        <td>Success is measured in terms of the aggregate investment performance and benefit realization of the portfolio.</td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
  </table>
</div>

[Project Management Body of Knowledge](https://g.co/kgs/ziC8gz)
